### Krishna Janmbhumi

The Krishna Janmbhumi grounds are one of Mathura's main draws as a pilgrimage site. The present complex is quite a sight -- several temples are complemented by a large stage, several exhibits of stationary and animatronic figures, a library, bookstore, multiple tea and snacks kiosks, and two rows of shops. There is also a primary school and cow shelter onsite, though these are not as conspicuous to visitors. This array of structures is semi-recent -- the Shri Krishna Janmbhumi Trust (est. Feb. 21, 1951) broke ground on October 15, 1953, with the imposing Bhagavat Bhawan finished on February 12, 1982.^[_Shrīkr̥ṣṇa Janmsthān Smārikā_, Delhi: Radha Press, 1982, 123-25.]

Due to the immediate proximity of the Krishna Janmsthan to the Shahi Idgah as well as the threats following the destruction of Ayodhya's Babri Masjid that Mathura would be next, there is a permanent police presence at each entry point of the complex, as well as on each side of the major market street along the its southern boundary. Every local I spoke with assured me that the relations between the Muslim and Hindu communities in Mathura were amicable (barring the rare occasions when both communities desire public processions on the same day), and that no one wanted the demolition of the Shahi Idgah. In the words of my landlady, "the birth shrine is already established -- there wouldn't be any point!"

There are two consequences to the permanent police presence that warrant further description. First, the traffic in the area is awful. Mathura's Parikrama Marg wind its way around the Potra Kund on the western side of the Janmsthan Complex, and police barricades are occasionally erected during high influxes of pilgrims. Additionally, stick-wielding officers have a habit of preying on rickshaws bloated with passengers when they slow down in order to cross the railway tracks just outside the Janmsthan's eastern boundary, which chokes the already thin road. The second consequence of the police presence is that no electronic items are permitted into the Janmsthan grounds, which makes for a significant change in the way people inhabit the space during visits. Rather than competitions to take the best selfies or desperate attempts to make a phone call over the din of rushing pilgrims, the grounds of the Janmsthan complex force visitors to do so without this century's favorite digital accessories. Only employees on the Janmsthan grounds who possess a special identification card are permitted to bring their cell phones into the premises, and even then, they cannot be of the "smartphone" variety.

Quite nearby to the Krishna Janmsthan complex -- just on the southern side of the Potra Kund -- is the neighborhood Brahma Kumaris Center, which I have frequented in the course of my research.
