### New Goshala and Pilgrim Lodgings

The structural work is nearly complete for this four-story building located on the southwestern corner of the Gayatri Pariwar Press grounds, but the interior work is very much under way. The sounds of power tools echoed through the concrete structure as I stood outside the entryway waiting for the foreman, Anand Sharma. After some time, a broad-shouldered man in a tan handloom kurta, crisp white bottoms, and polished dress shoes descended the stairs -- silver roots betrayed a mustache dyed black. Anand Sharma is a civil engineer by profession, and he worked with the Birla Temple next door until 1997, from which time he has taken over work on the Gayatri Pariwar's construction projects. The son-in-law of Mrtyunjaya Sharma (the president of the Gayatri Pariwar's Yug Nirman Yojna Vistar Trust and son-in-law of the organization's founder, Shriram Sharma), Anand Sharma carries a lot of sway in the Gayatri Pariwar.

According to the foreman, there are over one-hundred and fifty rooms being built in this new structure, which will add an additional five-hundred to six-hundred person capacity to the grounds, thereby doubling the number of visitors that can stay onsite. These rooms will take up the top three stories of the building. On the ground floor, a new _goshālā_ was formally opened on October 8<sup>th</sup>. Although the cows graze out front until 4:00 p.m. every day, they are brought in and milked in the evening. The back of the _goshālā_ contains the area where cow byproducts are processed. The Gayatri Pariwar makes use of all of the cow byproducts. Milk and ghee are used at the Tapobhumi cafeteria, whereas cow urine and feces are used in the _chikitsālaya_ and _yajñashālā_, respectively. Below the _goshālā_, and also still under construction, is where the cow feed will be stored. Somewhere in this structure, likely on one of the residential floors, a naturopathic clinic is also under construction. Construction on this building will not take longer than another year.
