### Jawahar Vidyalaya Inter College

The Jawahar Vidyalaya Inter College is top-ranked among nearly one hundred other semi-government-funded secondary schools in the district of Mathura, and happens also to have offered the Gayatri Pariwar's Bharatiya Sanskriti Gyan Pariksha (BSGP) as an optional exam in 2018. Established in 1947 by Brajmohan Lal Agrawal, who named the secondary school after his father, Jawahar Lal Agrawal, the inter college currently serves around 1900 students from 6<sup>th</sup> to 12<sup>th</sup> standard. The inter college campus is spacious: a wide courtyard is flanked by a long row of classrooms on the left and by administrative offices on the right. The center of the courtyard features a small temple, likely enshrining Saraswati, goddess of knolwedge, alongside busts of the school's founder and his father. A large field, also part of the campus extends behind the row of classrooms. Although some of the white paint has chipped off of the exteriors of the buildings, the inter college grounds appear tidy and well-maintained.

Conversations with faculty and staff suggest that around 400 students took part in the BSGP, and 90% of those were attracted by the chance to win awards (in the form of a certificate, small memento, or even cash prize) for scoring highly. This is not to say that student interest brought the exam to Jawahar Vidyalaya; rather, it was the District Inspector of Schools, a government official responsible for hundreds of schools in the Mathura district, that sanctioned the BSGP at the inter college. I asked Jayprakash, the teacher who proctored the BSGP at the school, if he thought the exam was beneficial for students. Perhaps because all of the decision-making regarding the exam happened either above or below teachers' noses -- either by district administrators or students -- he shrugged his shoulders in response: "Any exam that takes place through the inter college has merit for students, but the [long-term] benefits of the Gyan Pariksha have yet to be seen."^[Conversation with Jayprakash, Jawahar Vidyalaya Inter College, Nov. 23, 2019.]
