### Laborer's Tenements

Directly across from the backside of press factory building is the home of Janardan Maurya, who is the senior administrator of printing and distribution of the Bharatiya Sanskriti Gyan Pariksha. The lane between these buildings is approximately twenty feet wide, three feet of which consist of a shallow sewer covered by clapboards. The remaining space accommodates a row of around twenty one-room structures of loosely assembled bricks covered with corrugated metal roofs. This is the housing allotted to the service class in residence -- sweepers, washers, and the like (_naukr훮n카_) -- responsible for the cleaning and maintenance of the pilgrim lodgings and other structures on the press grounds. The laborers hired to complete the construction of the new _gosh훮l훮_ and residential building likely also make use of these makeshift homes.

Were I not led into this alleyway by the receptionist of the press in a search for Janardan Maurya at home, I would likely never have seen this hidden strip of labor class dwellings. The receptionist who led me to the area casually pointed the structures out to me, which suggests he felt that the separate lodging of a service staff in such accommodations is normal. To clarify, those who live in these dwellings likely work contractually for the Gayatri Pariwar, and are _not_ likely to belong to the Gayatri Pariwar community. A laborer responsible clearing debris from the new construction site told me that neither he nor many of the construction workers have any connection to the Gayatri Pariwar outside of their labor contracts. Despite a heavy emphasis on caste inclusion in the organization's literature and historical narrative, these labor tenements are one of several places where a clear demarcation of caste and class difference in Gayatri Pariwar spaces is visible (should you have the chance to look).
